---
layout: post
title: On 2019 May 23 research
---


* ### Journey to Consciousness(Integrated Information Theory)

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrated_information_theory)



Integrated information theory (IIT) attempts to explain what consciousness is and why it might be associated with certain physical systems.

IIT attempts to identify the essential properties of consciousness (axioms) and, from there, infers the properties of physical systems that can account for it (postulates). 




The axioms are intended to capture the essential aspects of every conscious experience. Every axiom should apply to every possible experience.

The wording of the axioms has changed slightly as the theory has developed, and the most recent and complete statement of the axioms is as follows:


1. Intrinsic existence: Consciousness exists: each experience is actual


2. Composition: Consciousness is structured: each experience is composed of multiple phenomenological distinctions, elementary or higher-order.


3. Information: Consciousness is specific: each experience is the particular way it is—being composed of a specific set of specific phenomenal distinctions—thereby differing from other possible experiences (differentiation). 


4. Integration: Consciousness is unified: each experience is irreducible and cannot be subdivided into non-interdependent, disjoint subsets of phenomenal distinctions.


5. Exclusion: Consciousness is definite, in content and spatio-temporal grain: each experience has the set of phenomenal distinctions it has, neither less (a subset) nor more (a superset), and it flows at the speed it flows, neither faster nor slower. 




