---
layout: post
title: On 2019 May 30 research
---


* ### The book of why

when we seek to emulate human thought on a computer, or indeed when we try to solve unfamiliar scientific problems, drawing an explicit dots-and-arrows picture is extremely useful. 



Deep learning has instead given us machines with truly impressive abilities but no intelligence. 



- THE THREE LEVELS OF CAUSATION 

A causal learner must master at least three distinct levels of cognitive ability: seeing, doing, and imagining. 


The Ladder of Causation, with representative organisms at each level. Most animals, as well as present-day learning machines, are on the first rung, learning from association. Tool users, such as early humans, are on the second rung if they act by planning and not merely by imitation. We can also use experiments to learn the effects of interventions, and presumably this is how babies acquire much of their causal knowledge. Counterfactual learners, on the top rung, can imagine worlds that do not exist and infer reasons for observed phenomena. ( Source: Drawing by Maayan Harel.) 

Pearl, Judea,Mackenzie, Dana. The Book of Why (p. 31). Penguin Books Ltd. Kindle Edition. 


- Soldiers A and B 

CountOrder -> Captain -> A or B -> dead 

Let's say A must follow the captain's order to execute death, but what if he isn't?  We are already breaking the rules. Computers must learn how to break the rules. 



- ON PROBABILITIES AND CAUSATION 

“ X raises the probability of Y ”  and defining P(Y| X) > P(Y) omits the other rungs that lead to the > P(Y)
While probabilities encode our beliefs about a static world, causality tells us whether and how probabilities change when the world changes, be it by intervention or by act of imagination. 



- Statistics
R. A. Fisher, the undisputed high priest of statistics in the generation after Galton and Pearson, described this difference succinctly. In 1925, he wrote, “Statistics may be regarded as … the study of methods of the reduction of data.” 

Pearl, Judea,Mackenzie, Dana. The Book of Why (p. 85). Penguin Books Ltd. Kindle Edition. 



- FROM OBJECTIVITY TO SUBJECTIVITY—THE BAYESIAN CONNECTION 

According to Wright, “The unstereotyped approach of path analysis differs profoundly from the stereotyped modes of description designed to avoid any departures from complete objectivity.” What does he mean? First, he means that path analysis should be based on the user’s personal understanding of causal processes, reflected in the causal diagram. 

Pearl, Judea,Mackenzie, Dana. The Book of Why (p. 88). Penguin Books Ltd. Kindle Edition. 

For Wright, drawing a path diagram is not a statistical exercise; it is an exercise in genetics, economics, psychology, or whatever the scientist’s own field of expertise is. 
Pearl, Judea,Mackenzie, Dana. The Book of Why (pp. 88-89). Penguin Books Ltd. Kindle Edition. 


Unlike correlation and most of the other tools of mainstream statistics, causal analysis requires the user to make a subjective commitment. She must draw a causal diagram that reflects her qualitative belief—or, better yet, the consensus belief of researchers in her field of expertise—about the topology of the causal processes at work. 

Pearl, Judea,Mackenzie, Dana. The Book of Why (p. 89). Penguin Books Ltd. Kindle Edition. 


- Bayesian Network

Reading Rumelhart’s paper, I felt convinced that any artificial intelligence would have to model itself on what we know about human neural information processing and that machine reasoning under uncertainty would have to be constructed with a similar message-passing architecture. But what are the messages? This took me quite a few months to figure out. I finally realized that the messages were conditional probabilities in one direction and likelihood ratios in the other. 

Pearl, Judea,Mackenzie, Dana. The Book of Why (pp. 110-111). Penguin Books Ltd. Kindle Edition. 



- AI researchers are therefore trying to answer two questions—about function and simulation

about function and simulation—with the first driving the second. 

Pearl, Judea,Mackenzie, Dana. The Book of Why (p. 365). Penguin Books Ltd. Kindle Edition. 




