---
layout: post
title: On 2019 May 30 research
---


* ### Symbolic representation and Godel's imcompleteness.


IF intelligence is yet unobserbable, and yet excluding symbolic reperesentation as it bridges some sense of relations within, AI would be not having its path to intelligence, yet use symbolic representation as a indirect path to get in touch. If so, AI would not be as effective as humans in symbolic representation dealing with direct path to the intelligence. if AI can take a direct path to intelligence, the symbolic representation would not be the only path for humans to observe the society, yet its unprobable by nature as the words itself is a part of that system. we need some external way to prove the symbolic representation without words, which can't be unimaginable in today's science today.



## The point is,


1:Let's say Intelligence won't appear, its never beeen observed wihtout external scope. 



2:Symbolic is the way to access to the Intelligence, yet itself won't become intelligent, as it's just a path to it.



3:symbolic representation also states all things could be describable by words we use to communicate.



4: Let's say AI tries to learn from symbolcic representation, but it's never direct path to intelligence, hence it won't achive the true representation of intelligence.



5:Through Godel's imcompleteness, symbolic representation yet to be unprobable by words, hence all mathematical theorem has difficulty to deal whith AI when taking a path to symbolic representation.




6: hence AI either keep being in the cage of symbolic, or finding some smarter way to access to intelligence without it with the proposition that the exsistnace of the intelligence  can't be modeled or representated directly.





